
8:00-8:30 - Registration

8:30-9:50 - First session

     * Ptolemy Project Status and Overview 
       Edward A. Lee
     * Kepler Project Status and Overview
       Bertram Ludaescher, UC Davis
     * TBA-1
     * TBA-2
       
9:50-10:10 - Break

10:10-11:10 - Second session

     * TBA-3
     * TBA-4
     * TBA-5
       
11:10-12:00 - Poster Briefings

     * Poster presenters are encouraged to give a 3 minute presentation
       about their poster.
       
12:00-1:00 - Lunch

1:00-3:00 - Poster session

3:00-4:00 - Afternoon session

     * TBA-6
     * TBA-7
     * TBA-8
     * TBA-9

4:20-5:25 - Feature presenatation and Summary

     * David Bacon (45 minutes)
     * Edward A. Lee Future Directions (20 minutes)
       
       
5:20-7:00 - Reception


Possible Presentations
----------------------

We have 8 slots, I've ordered the talks roughly by my preference.

The idea was to mix the Kepler and Ptolemy talks.
We could either group the industry talks or spread them out.

1) David Bacon 
   Need title
   Put last, right before Edward's Future directions talk.
   Also, should we give David more time?  Edward says 45 minutes?n

2) Ilkay Altintas <altintas@sdsc.edu> (Joint work with Matt) 
   "Distributed Computing in Kepler"

3) Haiyang Zheng
   "Operational Semantics for Hybrid Systems"

4) Xiaojun Liu
   "DE Semantics" Need title?

5) Shawn Bowers (Rowland Johnson)
   "The Semantic Type System"

6) Chad Berkley, possibly with Matt
  "Workflow Encapsulation: The KSW File"

  Note that this could probably be done in conjunction with matt or
  someone else who would be presenting on the kepler object management
  system.

7) Daniel Lázaro Cuadrado
   "The Distributed-SDF Domain"

The purpose of the Distributed-SDF domain for Ptolemy II is to allow
distributed simulation of SDF models. It builds on top of the existing
SDF domain by extending it. From the user's point of view, using the
Distributed-SDF director is sufficient to run the distributed
version. It provides options (in the form of parameters in the
configuration dialog) to generate sequential or parallel schedules and
to execute the simulation in a local or distributed manner.

The director relies on the Distributed-SDF scheduler (that extends the
existing SDF scheduler) to generate parallel schedules. The parallel
schedule is computed by performing a topological sort of the acyclic
graph that can be derived from the model's topology. For the
distributed execution of the model, a distributed platform is
required. For this purpose, server processes must be running on the
different machines that will constitute the distributed platform. In
order to make this distributed platform dynamic and transparent for
the user, we use JINI as a peer discovery protocol. The server
processes register with a lookup service and they are discovered by
the Distributed-SDF director whenever a simulation is to be
performed. Once the director has gathered a number of servers
sufficient to run the simulation, it deploys them on the different
servers. MoML descriptions of the pre-initialized actors are sent over
the network to the different servers and loaded dynamically from local
storage. After the actors are loaded remotely, virtual connections
(over the network) are made among them in a way that mimics the ones
in the original model, making the communication between actors
decentralized. One of the architectural issues is how to identify the
receivers in a distributed setup. A receiver that resides locally in a
model can be distinctly identified but not when is distributed. To
solve this, the receiver class has been extended with a tag. Once the
actors are distributed and virtually connected, the distributed
platform is ready to start the simulation. The Distributed-SDF
director orchestrates the execution of the scheduler in a centralized
manner. In order to allow parallel executions of actors, it creates
threads locally to control every distributed actor. This allows to
simultaneously firing those actors that are ready and have no
interdependencies. Since several actors can be executing at the same
time, and can have different processing times, after every schedule
level, a synchronization step is introduced. When an actor is executed
remotely, it is embedded in a model with a director and its inputs and
outputs are connected to modified relations that make them believe
they are embedded in the original model. Those relations are in charge
of receiving the tokens and placing them at the right receiver. The
same goes for the output ports. Tokens are sent over the net to the
distributed processes that are expecting to receive them.
The distributed-SDF domain provides certain advantages derived from
its distributed nature. First of all, known memory bounds of the JVM
can be overcome. Second, it yields smaller simulation times, mainly
for models with high degree of parallelism and granularity.


8) Edward Lee "Actor-Oriented Classes"

9) Horst Salzwedel, MLDesigner 
   "Large scale networked system simulation using MLDesigner"
  
  >If you have another slot I can present also results on
  >"Modeling and simulation of in-flight aeronautical services"

10) Timothy M McPhillips

  "The Beagle Extension to Ptolemy II: Pipelined Scientific Workflows
  for Inferring Evolutionary Relationships"

  > I would like to present either a talk or a poster.  I will need
  > power and a table for a monitor if I present a poster, but I can
  > bring my own LCD display.

  Large-scale scientific research projects commonly span widely
  separated computing and experimental resources. The challenge of the
  future will be to provide small research groups with access to
  virtual laboratories composed of network-accessible, high-throughput
  research tools. Unfortunately, even current projects are limited by
  the lack of comprehensive computing infrastructure for supporting
  data-intensive, highthroughput research. The Natural Diversity
  Discovery Project (NDDP) is developing a software framework to
  address key aspects of this problem. NDDP software builds on the
  Ptolemy II heterogeneous modeling and design system, adding
  capabilities for managing collections of data in pipelined
  scientific workflows. Paired tokens delimit nested collections of
  associated data. These collections provide support for customizing
  actor behavior, handling exceptions, controlling data flow, storing
  metadata, and recording data provenance. The NDDP is applying
  pipelined scientific workflows to the problem of inferring
  phylogenetic trees.  Objectives include developing a collaboratory
  for evolutionary biologists and providing a web-based discovery
  environment for the general public.

11) Darryl Koivisto <Darryl.Koivisto@mirabilisdesign.com>
  "Turing Machine based Script Language running at several
  Million Instructions per Second."

12) Jorn Janneck
   Need title
  
13) Tim H. Wong, UC Davis
   "Develop Data Grid Workflows using Storage Resource Broker and Kepler"


14) Dan Higgins
    "Integration of R in Kepler"

    This would review our efforts to incorporate R into Kepler,
    including CommandLine hacks/demos, use of RServer, data type
    conversion issues, graphics generation, etc.

15) Dan Higgins
    "Adding GIS into Kepler" (Check on title)

    Experience adding various local GIS functions into Kepler as part
    of the SEEK/BEAM Environmental Niche workflow. This would include
    experience adding custom C code (GARP, GRASS subroutines) and
    native Java actors for GIS grids; Also, a discussion of the use of
    the ImageJ image processing package from NIH into Kepler for use
    in displaying results and adding numerous image processing
    features using the code in the ImageJ package.

16) Duncan Temple Lang (R guru and now
    Assoc. Prof. for Statistics) might be an interesting person to invite
    from a scientific workflows perspective (panel or invited speaker).


17) Mohamed A. Salem, Mirabilis

  "Ptolemy-Oriented Structural, Reconfigurable and Heterogeneous Hardware
  Design, Verification and Synthesis"


This Paper investigates the suitability of "Ptolemy II" platform for
current complex hardware systems' design, modeling, simulation,
verification, synthesis and implementation. 

Systems' complexity, lower process nodes, low power, high performance,
high cost, short time-to-market, standard-based protocols and
successful completion of ASICs constitute a set of current hardware
designs' challenges. The ESL (Electronic System Level) transition to
higher abstraction, system verification techniques, reconfigurable
platforms, seamless hardware/software architectures and structured
ASICs comprise some innovative methodical strategies to cross hurdles.
 
"Ptolemy II" platform introduces comprehensive set of features;
concurrency, heterogeneity, hierarchical structure, portability,
distributed modeling, component-based framework, code generation,
openness and others; that supports implementation of the innovative
hardware design solutions. 

This paper studies advantages of "Ptolemy II" features adoption from
the innovative hardware design process perspective, presents past and
current "Ptolemy II" hardware design efforts' status and proposes
several future research work topics addressing "Ptolemy II" and
hardware design complete unified platform.

The paper concludes that "Ptolemy II" current platform has low
entry-barrier for hardware designers; taking into account the new
hardware design challenges; and calls for potential contribution from
the hardware design community to the proposed research topics
addressing an optimized "Ptolemy II" platform for complex hardware
chip designs.


18) Mokhoo Mbobi <Mokhoo.Mbobi@supelec.fr>

  Integration of a Flat Heterogeneous Domain in Ptolemy II

  Heterogeneous systems become very varied, obeying very different
  functioning laws by mixing different technical domains which have
  different methods of modeling and design from/to each other and do not
  consider their components and their interrelationships in the same
  way. In each domain the interactions between components are controlled
  and governed by a specific Model of Computation (MoC). In order to mix
  these different technical domains, some heterogeneous modeling tools
  generally focus on a fixed set of MoCs. Since they use few MoCs that
  are known beforehand, they can easily define the union of these MoCs,
  and the total knowledge of the interactions between these MoCs allows
  a complete modeling.

  See
  http://ptolemy.eecs.berkeley.edu/~cxh/tmp2/pdf/Mbobi.pdf


* Ivan Jeukins can't make it


Posters
-------

* Stephen Neuendorffer
  "Hierarchical Reconfiguration of Dataflow Models"
  Steve is willing to present

* Elaine Cheong
  "Viptos: A Graphical Development and Simulation Environment 
  for TinyOS-based Wireless Sensor Networks"

* Alex G. Olson and Brian L. Evans
  Deadlock Detection for Distributed Process Networks


  Embedded Signal Processing Laboratory,
  Wireless Networking and Communications Group,
  The University of Texas at Austin, Austin, TX 78712 USA
  aolson@ece.utexas.edu - bevans@ece.utexas.edu

  Abstract

  The Process Network (PN) model, which consists of concurrent processes
  communicating over first-in first out unidirectional queues, is useful for
  modeling and exploiting functional parallelism in streaming data
  applications. The PN model maps easily onto multi-processor and/or
  multi-threaded targets. Since the PN model is Turing complete, memory
  requirements cannot be predicted statically. In general, any bounded
  memory scheduling algorithm for this model requires run-time deadlock
  detection. The few PN implementations that perform deadlock detection
  detect only global deadlocks. Not all local deadlocks, however, will cause
  a PN system to reach global deadlock. In this paper, we present the first
  local deadlock detection algorithm for PN models. The proposed algorithm
  is based on the Mitchell and Merritt algorithm and is suitable for both
  parallel and distributed PN implementations.

* GEON workflows (Efrat et al)
* ROADNet (real-time sensor networks, Tobin Fricke et al)
* GeoStreams (UC Davis project, real-time satellite workflow)
* Kepler/R coupling (SEEK, Dan Higgins)
* Kepler/SRB coupling for data-intensive workflows (UCSD/UCD)
* some more SEEK workflows ... probably..
* Yang Zhao "Building Reliable Distributed Models"
* Thomas Feng "Backtracking in Ptolemy Models"
* Efrat Frank "A Scientific Workflow Approach to Managing Geosciences Data"

  Geological information retrieval and processing is essential for 
  solving geosciences problems. These problems often require complex data 
  access and computational analysis methods and components that can be 
  composed in a meaningful order into a geoscience workflow to assist 
  scientific discovery.

  The data access methods often involve metadata interpreter, database 
  access to both relational and geo-spatial (e.g. shapefiles) databases, 
  efficient storage functionality, such as SRB, and other file transfer 
  methods. The processing components consist of generic components such as 
  web service access and browser functionality, and domain specific 
  components such as classification algorithms, arcIMS services and 
  interpolation algorithms.  These components can be represented as actors.

  In this poster, we present several geosciences workflows that 
  utilize the above-mentioned functionality to automate scientific analyses 
  that lead to geoscience discoveries.

* Ayla Khan
  "SCIRun and Kepler Dataflow Integration"

  Building useful scientific workflows often requires disparate
  software to interoperate in the workflow pipeline. The C++-based
  SCIRun problem solving environment provides a multi-threaded
  GUI-based platform for building dataflow networks. SCIRun networks
  are built using integrated scientific computation algorithms, data
  processing, simulation and visualization tools. The Kepler project,
  based on Ptolemy II software, provides developers with tools for
  building complex, distributed and data-intensive scientific
  workflows using the Vergil interface. The Scientific Process
  Automation (SPA) project uses Kepler to build loosely coupled
  workflows using web services and workflow automation tools.

  Our goal is to incorporate SCIRun in SPA workflows. To this end, we
  used Java Native Interface (JNI) functions to create an interface
  encapsulated in a Ptolemy-based actor to instantiate SCIRun in the
  same address space as the Java-based Kepler process. As a prototype
  of this integration, a triangle mesh dataset was generated in Vergil
  and carried to SCIRun through this interface, where a SCIRun network
  converted the data into a SCRun mesh and used SCIRun models to
  visualize the results.  Using similar methods, SCIRun can be
  inserted into SPA workflows as an automated analysis tool controlled
  by a Kepler-based actor.

